TCOMGEN.TXT     Notes on this GENERIC TCOM compiler     by:   Tom Zimmer
                                                        Date: 09/09/91
  Welcome to the wonderful world of TCOM.

Information and phylosophy

  TCOM stands for (T)arget (COM)piler.  TCOM is a space and speed
optimizing Forth (and now BASIC) compiler available for the 8086 family
of processors.  It is intended to make compiling of Forth source code
into "small" standalone applications easy.  TCOM for the 8086 creates
".COM" files. I am sometimes asked why TCOM doesn't create ".EXE" file.
The reason is simple. TCOM was designed and is intended for making small
things. If you want to make "BIG" things, then you should use the F-PC
Forth system with all of its tools and large model architecture.

  While TCOM86 is wonderful for creating programs the the 8086 family, I
also wanted TCOM to be used as a base for compilers for other
processors. Mike Mayo developed the 80196 target, Andrew McKewen
developed the 6805 target.  Targets for several SAMSUNG processors (where
I work) have been developed.  Unfortunately a common thread through most
of these targets is: The difficulty each designers had in figuring out
how to interface their targets to TCOM.  Thus I have developed this
generic target to provide some illumination to this process.

  TCOM for any given target consists of several parts as listed below:

        1.      TCOM itself:  COMPILE1.SEQ, COMPILE2.SEQ, HEAD2.SEQ,
                              TCOMNDX.SEQ and HOST.SEQ

        2.      A target assembler.

        3.      A target optimizer or interface file.

        4.      A target library of functions.

  All of these pieces must be present for TCOM to function.

  In addition, TCOM provides a separate program to generate listing
files from a set of symbol and index files that TCOM can build during a
compile. If you are planning to generate listing files then you must
also provide a disassembler to use with the listing generation program.


Creating a NEW Target

  You can, and will probably want to, build your new target from one of
the exsiting targets.  This is desirable, and is in fact "THE WAY TO GO".
BUT, you should probably begin by looking at this generic target to try
to understand how TCOM works FIRST!

  The four parts of TCOM listed above begin with TCOM the compiler
itself.  While TCOM is the compiler, it does not itself actually do any
compiling.  TCOM itself is (intended to be) generic with respect to the
processor and architecture of your target.  The compiling is done by your
target assembler and optimizer files. TCOM provides words that store and
fetch from the targets address space, which your assembler and optimizer
use, but the target must make decisions about what and how many bytes are
placed into the target application for each instruction or function
referenced.

  So, if TCOM doesn't really do any compiling, then what does it do?
TCOM essentially handles: symbols, target memory references, and target
defining words for each target. TCOM also allows you to build a library
of target functions that will automatically be included in your target
application when they are referenced.  TCOM is in effect the DIRECTOR of
the compile process, directing the assembler and optimizers to generate
code from target applications requests and references.  While this may
not sound like much, it does simplify much of the work when building a
new target.

  Building a new target for TCOM is essentially the process of "filling
in the blanks" for a set of relatively simple optimizer (compiler
interface) functions, writing an assembler for your target and writing
the set of functions that make up the targets function library.

  The library can start small, and expand as your needs expand, but it
will consist minimally of functions to handle literals in the target, and
conditional branches.

  The optimizers are simply linkage routines that tell TCOM how to start
and end the compiling of a colon definitions, and how to start up your
target application (initialization routines).

  If you are writing a target for TCOM that is subroutine threaded, then
you may want to write a disassembler to be linked into TCOM's listing
program.  The file LS86.SEQ and its associated files should provide some
insite into the process of creating a new disassembler.

  Implementation of a TCOM target should begin on top of the full F-PC
Forth system, so all of the F-PC debugging tools are available.  It is
useful to debug the word "TARG:" and trace through the compiling process
when debugging your optimizer functions.

  I realize this is very minimal documentation to start on a new target,
and IF YOU AREN'T A VERY EXPERIENCED FORTH PROGRAMMER, then you probably
should just stop at this point and just use the provided compilers.  I
can only provide very minimal support to persons implementing targets,
so you will not only have to do most of the work yourself, but you will
have to figure out most of the questions and problems yourself as well.

  I hope at least a few people will be brave enough to try implementing
new targets for TCOM, and those of you that are successful should contact
me.  I will definitely want to hear about your work, and I would like to
distribute additional public domain targets as they become available.  I
can also provide additional targets to implementers as I receive them.
As an implementer donating a target, you can receive free updates to TCOM
and F-PC from me free on request.

  If you are thinking of starting a new TCOM target project, contact me
first and I will try to get you together with others that may be working
on the same target.

  Existing TCOM targets:

        6805    subroutine threaded 8-bit               (public domain)
        8080    Indirect threaded                       (public domain)
        8086    subroutine threaded                     (public domain)
        8086    indirect threaded                       (public domain)
        8086    BASIC compiler, subroutine threaded     (public domain)
        80196   subroutine threaded                     (public domain)
        SSP1600 SAMSUNG, digital signal processor, subroutine threaded
                                                        (public domain)
    *   56000   SAMSUNG, subroutine threaded 8-bit      (propriatary)
    *   SAM8    SAMSUNG, subroutine threaded 8-bit      (propriatary)
        SAM8    SAMSUNG, BASIC compiler, subroutine threaded
                                                        (public domain)
        TCOMGEN genaric tutorial compiler               (public domain)

    *   These targets are currently only available from SAMSUNG, for use
        in developing application programs. These compilers also produce
        highly space optimized code.

  Targets I would LIKE to see done:  80C51, RTX2000, 68000



